README.md, before:

# FOT-Library-Management-System

## Description
The FOT Library Management System is a web application designed to manage the operations of a library. It includes functionalities for managing books, users, and transactions.

## Table of Contents
- [Installation](#installation)
- [Usage](#usage)
- [Features](#features)
- [Contributing](#contributing)
- [License](#license)

## Installation
To install and set up the project, follow these steps:

1. Clone the repository:
    ```sh
    git clone https://github.com/AvishkaVishwa/FOT-Library-Management-System.git
    ```
2. Navigate to the project directory:
    ```sh
    cd FOT-Library-Management-System
    ```
3. Install the necessary dependencies:
    ```sh
    npm install
    ```

## Usage
To start the application in development mode, run:
```sh
npm start
```
This will run the app and open [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000) in your browser. The page will reload when you make changes.

To run tests:
```sh
npm test
```

To build the app for production:
```sh
npm run build
```
This will create a `build` folder containing the optimized production build.

## Features
- Manage books: Add, update, delete book records.
- Manage users: Register, update, delete user records.
- Manage transactions: Issue and return books, track overdue items.

## Contributing
Contributions are welcome! Follow these steps to contribute:

1. Fork the repository.
2. Create a new branch with a descriptive name:
    ```sh
    git checkout -b feature/your-feature-name
    ```
3. Make your changes.
4. Commit your changes:
    ```sh
    git commit -m "Add your descriptive commit message here"
    ```
5. Push to your branch:
    ```sh
    git push origin feature/your-feature-name
    ```
6. Open a Pull Request.

## License
This project is licensed under the MIT License. See the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

Commit message:

Update README.md to include frontend and backend navigation instructions

README.md, after:

# FOT-Library-Management-System

## Description
The FOT Library Management System is a web application designed to manage the operations of a library. It includes functionalities for managing books, users, and transactions.

## Table of Contents
- [Installation](#installation)
- [Usage](#usage)
- [Features](#features)
- [Contributing](#contributing)
- [License](#license)

## Installation
To install and set up the project, follow these steps:

1. Clone the repository:
    ```sh
    git clone https://github.com/AvishkaVishwa/FOT-Library-Management-System.git
    ```
2. Navigate to the project directory:
    ```sh
    cd FOT-Library-Management-System
    ```
3. Install the necessary dependencies:
    ```sh
    npm install
4. Navigate to the frontend 
    ```sh
    cd frontend
    ```
5. To start the frontend, run:
```sh
npm start
```
6. Navigate to the backend 
    ```sh
    cd backend
    ```
7. To start the backend, run:
```sh
npm start
```

This will run the app and open [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000) in your browser. The page will reload when you make changes.

To run tests:
```sh
npm test
```

To build the app for production:
```sh
npm run build
```
This will create a `build` folder containing the optimized production build.

## Features
- Manage books: Add, update, delete book records.
- Manage users: Register, update, delete user records.
- Manage transactions: Issue and return books, track overdue items.

## Contributing
Contributions are welcome! Follow these steps to contribute:

1. Fork the repository.
2. Create a new branch with a descriptive name:
    ```sh
    git checkout -b feature/your-feature-name
    ```
3. Make your changes.
4. Commit your changes:
    ```sh
    git commit -m "Add your descriptive commit message here"
    ```
5. Push to your branch:
    ```sh
    git push origin feature/your-feature-name
    ```
6. Open a Pull Request.
